README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="src/assets/images/icon_w_background.png" height="80" />
</p>
<h1 align="center">Ocean Scan App</h1>

## Getting started

Make sure you have [Node.js v16.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and [Yarn v1](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) installed on your system.

### Set up environment variables (.env)

Create `.env` file at the root of the project. Vars are in 1Password under `Marine-Plastic/Ocean-Scan App Environment Variables` note.

**Note:** If you run into problems like environment changes not being picked up, try clearing the cache ([more info](https://github.com/tusbar/babel-plugin-dotenv-import#caveats)). Alternatively, try `yarn start --clear` to start with a clear cache.

```bash
$ rm -rf node_modules/.cache/babel-loader/*
```

### Installing dependencies

```bash
$ yarn install
```

### Running Expo

```bash
$ yarn start
```

### Debugging

You can debug using the standalone [react-native debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger) by starting it attached to the right port:

```
open "rndebugger://set-debugger-loc?host=localhost&port=19000"
```

## Understanding the code base

The app source code is located in the `./src` directory.

#### React components - `./src/components`

This is where our React components live.

#### Models - `./src/models`

Here we declare our models.

#### Navigation - `./src/navigation`

This is where all the navigation is defined, we are using `react-navigation`.

#### Screens - `./src/screens`

Screens live here. A screen is a React component which will take up the entire screen and be part of the navigation hierarchy. Each screen will have a directory containing the `.tsx` file, along with any assets or other helper files.

#### Services - `./src/services`

Any services that interface with the outside world will live here (Auth service, APIs, Push Notifications, etc.).

#### Store - `./src/store`

Here lives the redux store.

#### Theme - `./src/theme`

Here lives the theme for our app, including spacing, colors, and typography.

#### Utils - `./src/utils`

This is a great place to put miscellaneous helpers and utilities. Things like date helpers, formatters, etc. are often found here.

However, it should only be used for things that are truly shared across the app. If a helper or utility is only used by a specific component or model, consider co-locating it with that component or model.

#### Main entry - `./src/Main.tsx`

This is the entry point to the app. It's the main component which renders the rest of the application.

### Tech stack

- [Yarn v1](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Expo](https://docs.expo.io/)
- [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/)
- [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/)

## Continuous integration & delivery

The GitHub Actions workflows can be found inside the `.github/workflows` directory.

### Master - `master.yml`

For every commit made to the `master` branch it will build a JavaScript bundle that is then published to the dev app on Expo.

## Build and upload native app to Apple Connect and TestFlight

We use workflows in GitHub Actions to build and upload IPA packages to Apple Connect. These workflows are triggered manually from the [Actions tab](https://github.com/prototypsthlm/marine-plastic-app/actions). Select the workflow you want to run and then click the "Run workflow" dropdown on the right and choose which branch to base it off.

Available actions:

- Upload native master build to TestFlight - `upload-master-ios.yml`

Commit message:

set up new EAS update, build & submit

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="src/assets/images/icon_w_background.png" height="80" />
</p>
<h1 align="center">Ocean Scan App</h1>

## Getting started

Make sure you have [Node.js v16.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) and [Yarn v1](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) installed on your system.

### Set up environment variables (.env)

Create `.env` file at the root of the project. Vars are in 1Password under `Marine-Plastic/Ocean-Scan App Environment Variables` note.

### Installing dependencies

```bash
$ yarn install
```

### Running Expo

```bash
$ yarn start
```

### Debugging

You can debug using the standalone [react-native debugger](https://github.com/jhen0409/react-native-debugger) by starting it attached to the right port:

```
open "rndebugger://set-debugger-loc?host=localhost&port=19000"
```

## Understanding the code base

The app source code is located in the `./src` directory.

#### React components - `./src/components`

This is where our React components live.

#### Models - `./src/models`

Here we declare our models.

#### Navigation - `./src/navigation`

This is where all the navigation is defined, we are using `react-navigation`.

#### Screens - `./src/screens`

Screens live here. A screen is a React component which will take up the entire screen and be part of the navigation hierarchy. Each screen will have a directory containing the `.tsx` file, along with any assets or other helper files.

#### Services - `./src/services`

Any services that interface with the outside world will live here (Auth service, APIs, Push Notifications, etc.).

#### Store - `./src/store`

Here lives the redux store.

#### Theme - `./src/theme`

Here lives the theme for our app, including spacing, colors, and typography.

#### Utils - `./src/utils`

This is a great place to put miscellaneous helpers and utilities. Things like date helpers, formatters, etc. are often found here.

However, it should only be used for things that are truly shared across the app. If a helper or utility is only used by a specific component or model, consider co-locating it with that component or model.

#### Main entry - `./src/Main.tsx`

This is the entry point to the app. It's the main component which renders the rest of the application.

### Tech stack

- [Yarn v1](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/)
- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- [Expo](https://docs.expo.io/)
- [React Navigation](https://reactnavigation.org/)
- [Redux Toolkit](https://redux-toolkit.js.org/)

## Continuous integration & delivery

The GitHub Actions workflows can be found inside the `.github/workflows` directory.

### EAS Update - `eas-update.yml`

For every commit made to the `master` branch it will build a JavaScript bundle that is then published to the dev app on Expo.

## EAS Build & Submit - `eas-build-and-submit.yml`

We only need to build if there is some changes to the native part of the app. If we only changing javascript code, it would update over the air with `EAS Update`.

EAS Build will build the .ipa and .apk and EAS Submit will publish them into the respective app stores.

To trigger this action, we need to bump the versions in package.json & app.json and then create a github release.
